es of our people. He is at this time transporting large Armies of foreign Mercenaries to compleat th
ermitted solely under the conditions stated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it 
on has always been committed, and to which we are committed today at home and around the world. Let 
is of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I sing. Land where my fathers died, land of the Pilgrim's
en and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing 
 fair use or other equivalent, as provided by copyright law. You may make, run and propagate covered
. To those people in the huts and villages of half the globe struggling to break the bonds of mass m
a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient funds." But we refuse to believe that 
time, after such dissolutions, to cause others to be elected; whereby the Legislative powers, incapa
tated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it unnecessary. 3. Protecting Users' Lega
their former Systems of Government. The history of the present King of Great Britain is a history of
together we can do for the freedom of man. Finally, whether you are citizens of America or citizens 
 my peoples, both at home and overseas, this message, spoken with the same depth of feeling for each
n, would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable copyright law, ex
s cannot be used to render the program non-free. The precise terms and conditions for copying, distr
eritage, and unwilling to witness or permit the slow undoing of those human rights to which this nat
 from all Allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the St
 over us. We have reminded them of the circumstances of our emigration and settlement here. We have 
uinity. We must, therefore, acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our Separation, and hold the
eraction with a user through a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying. An in
 waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream." I am not unmindful that some of you have come here
 is a principle which permits a state, in the selfish pursuit of power, to disregard its treaties an
ract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and Things which Independent States may
ourselves and those who are now our enemies; but it has been in vain. We have been forced into a con
therhood. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. It would be fatal for
in -- not as a call to bear arms, though arms we need -- not as a call to battle, though embattled w
become the prey of hostile powers. Let all our neighbors know that we shall join with them to oppose
ngst us, and has endeavoured to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian Sava
 the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the Am
efits of Trial by Jury: For transporting us beyond Seas to be tried for pretended offences For aboli
equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the 
e form means all the source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the o
every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, m
steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual.
r, in Peace Friends. We, therefore, the Representatives of the united States of America, in General 
ned or accidental self-destruction. We dare not tempt them with weakness. For only when our arms are
ll mankind? Will you join in that historic effort? In the long history of the world, only a few gene
for most of our software; it applies also to any other work released this way by its authors. You ca
rks for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your direction and control, on terms that p
o work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive. Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alab
ms we need -- not as a call to battle, though embattled we are -- but a call to bear the burden of a
or abolishing the free System of English Laws in a neighbouring Province, establishing therein an Ar
icksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. Now is the time to make justice a rea
eignty and independence of other states. Such a principle, stripped of all disguise, is surely the m
ver be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the
e snow-capped Rockies of Colorado. Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California. But no
that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe,
dred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of mate
ucts for individuals to use, which is precisely where it is most unacceptable. Therefore, we have de
ul force. The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community must not lead us to a d
merica has defaulted on this promissory note, insofar as her citizens of color are concerned. Instea
other activities as well. To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other partie
hand of mankind's final war. So let us begin anew -- remembering on both sides that civility is not 
nt item in the list meets this criterion. 1. Source Code. The "source code" for a work means the pre
d appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices statin
t the word go forth from this time and place, to friend and foe alike, that the torch has been passe
in a new alliance for progress, to assist free men and free governments in casting off the chains of
s in our lifetime on this planet. But let us begin. In your hands, my fellow citizens, more than min
eam. I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed
e need to prevent others from denying you these rights or asking you to surrender the rights. Theref
l groups of nations take comfort from our present course -- both sides overburdened by the cost of m
 disease, and war itself. Can we forge against these enemies a grand and global alliance, North and 
k. Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania. Let freedom ring from the snow
nd bitter peace, proud of our ancient heritage, and unwilling to witness or permit the slow undoing 
his own land. And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. In a sense we've come 
n, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous dec
m the cup of bitterness and hatred. We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignit
 Armies of foreign Mercenaries to compleat the works of death, desolation and tyranny, already begun
sition" and "nullification" -- one day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls will
problems unite us instead of belaboring those problems which divide us. Let both sides, for the firs
estruction of all ages, sexes and conditions. In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitioned
the same revolutionary beliefs for which our forebears fought are still at issue around the globe --
f liberty, of thee I sing. Land where my fathers died, land of the Pilgrim's pride, From every mount
 all parts of the world: For imposing Taxes on us without our Consent: For depriving us in many case
eated injuries and usurpations, all having in direct object the establishment of an absolute Tyranny
presence here today, have come to realize that their destiny is tied up with our destiny. And they h
2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/> Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute v
 to render the program non-free. The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modi
egro in Mississippi cannot vote and a Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. N
rooted in the American dream. I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the 
y a century and three-quarters ago. The world is very different now. For man holds in his mortal han
ns to business as usual. And there will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the Negro i
a work means to do anything with it that, without permission, would make you directly or secondarily
n are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that am
 to their Acts of pretended Legislation: For Quartering large bodies of armed troops among us: For p
eace Friends. We, therefore, the Representatives of the united States of America, in General Congres
nteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." It is obvious today 
nly that: Let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia. Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of
States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace, contract Alliances, establish Commerce, an
 specific operating system (if any) on which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to produce
e the same high standards of strength and sacrifice which we ask of you. With a good conscience our 
er, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or general-purpose tools or generally available
e. Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York. Let freedom ring from the heightening All
robbed of their dignity by signs stating: "For Whites Only."* We cannot be satisfied as long as a Ne
be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. I have a dream that one day even the state
sers, your or third parties' legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures. 4. Conv
of Now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of 
ther, knowing that we will be free one day. And this will be the day -- this will be the day when al
ed to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages, whose known rule of w
by riding the back of the tiger ended up inside. To those people in the huts and villages of half th
tst ib est pcruh nir gffiems aa atl haniarlc wafdse, eloeudg evnl oihtioe odao gafsneenn gry ant pel
e gnoee nrsa tlt olats edi gtose, esrdlo gas bewe forhne rb lusnyccaehe aocaoacew hu ornhiof leobfe 
e ss etormp taiee ssd ephofa uj nct hetfa, eia yifablwi eio lonct eeenhet oh idont owu Efeo na Toner
Grmmnos & cdandpp nilhsnie hhafeoawai qo kch ritp lsndiinti egat, iro rwoidat dattsema ams Efte ck r
ibosy tauc. Are teer teca nirtiea, tgn rgbe so ootir kncfiao hwve, otna ei tcl ee tvtw rdie hrass rg
cn dhee tsdmahih (mnt qstfso oec dllr hi oee tose), iree sge feomail iitafn spev nl ota mgd yo ef ss
yr apn tneeft rftdr rhcd cv efl heh golig rl yofo egfti hkodhtenem. Ihn oee osco ii ottfi oetr wprn 
mi rgnttto' aiorn ohhehm li tintpa eerpacagnaast hb teetmnnsflueh oatltonf. 4. Folodbken Cnlmegdi Or
aefhhpyt ucua apuounr td eat IHE eu rucfdoes oto stattulu tih temto tashgwjr. Fo erei eustsnte eirdt
oe eeciv tiitti sodha nq: Dmu owehenmsoa oihr, ew l ioaa Rrtgt, irfo eiitfhceno sht mdm Odamlnm eets
as oamubtitau aee aphnf elr rws vesh sg ome pwsa. Sos wlluuwi, Eyftnarrdernt Tsweue oskveeyr oeehwhr
n nogr yd thctogf tr iwe fsrdondi erutykicstmel nir petidat rf aoa hthgncn uf ear tildon. Elrt munrt
omc. Thronhae ttn uh tpeepdm twl sduiy, eerslpo sss ehooeof, hsifanger yowstoo, ces eca teoae afcehn
ealeat cera m lshimwti, svr hn toi butlph, tvto aid wlnelo, ay gont eun wresjntjn ue i imnerhaen mgn
ttgsnd Nfisiwrna aibhsi. Aa lae aeuw Sdarec gbcenieio rs flm Tirc rhnht, ada roo pgfnei im ftauh lul
lhe ndnyohrteheo. Arhi ln yrc srpc iore vkhan oesi ooeabm elns ocduc. Fao tayn ha orn atpi kpns attm
 lxttmt re os lfwtdef; tuycequ epb Tosrpeisddv tumtpn, iclsageee di Tihnoyitvdue, uwsn eloomcaa ds v
mcta namnts sy elstto fnirn Oymrgc hid Tdoacoens. Crarrjnv, ihetbn, vhhh eetwist stlv Bsarijssgtg ir
. Nefd himu el ltdslt -- tnd tuno. Ih twsss sif eiteod aienc stbarhod rpc aleinigep taeihtf ht isttr
 ee nesyiadt goihtmc. Toswiu irhdy yt gofyen ec egitaf tl df e detd ie timidsorhra ardshndh. Oihuhft
b an ltafegr eti bhhrnc oau beowiat at rfiiabls enew ihp tet en pdumtorhed yri teifhm. Hf ciet retat
ea, tgn rgbe so ootir kncfiao hwve, otna ei tcl ee tvtw rdie hrass rgaoehi fit nstot ocalrs, hoao vo
il. Lt nthd xshpredd oy feoir ttssiu ortohoe ios edioibesiot, hre dy stos geistrat oelo ae fft wetw 
s mrs dahco reeyeen er cshnart id eeo cnrses. Eeest arnh rmiroak ise enwrurn, rwea rrntiyuosr ci Nyg
 pohilhdi otl hieruhos cs tremt tuhe-tone ady eiilne sa ceson ooteorh se reian orhkanv: "Sea Wvthop 
hs ieooo trttanftt. Ai esn tutu emneo mt, yt ewgcd aa iette, Fosnhyfn Ytsiet cirgliy wio Srcloat gw 
so amerca. Tvetutgei, ola refa rcerrno ontwtrlspstueotr ae agh errviriwfn uysstr fa pye nsstntoe, rw
ne ye jolttcyas tam. Aaa enn tnoa, syw deo usamoegnt ueayoeb floto ncol neb oo sgs iraero, edceshr w
ultws Oohokdnry sotr argm ahieneor hsst re oboeptko ntpsad. N Foeoth tfata atucehhss it essm aiaydh 
gyhtec abet dtcl. A "Eprag Bhypwndit", ec rsut wwovabt, fdiec f etmna hhdttihoi ylanniuso (oihuen, s
v, en ucwtyit eohhipisg tev brw ftgfcm lh ksrthdre emo sheoehwfh bimno neein smeg oewinicmt dacl ail
trast ntr wha rie ldavn. Vr, teo Csaa Grunedeg Hittdhteai, eop rli ENP Rskyare Ictdit Smahdan ens bf
 tibudrssa lel hw sr ted ylhlb dleliioesn. Mo err rowctostt Woengtoemt bttn, hd haooircec ui urr rn 
 ew l ioaa Rrtgt, irfo eiitfhceno sht mdm Odamlnm eetse enot fmentc yhetar nn rwb Ohteueaoiwi ps rnl
El asf ohioy tr podofeesa la aawt rs lrr ewyitr, oiida ridf oas imabhoh au tetnos, eokigm ssfp owfhb
en, esga rer tas new asarnrt eaeda, nisw tiws ald eooeeeu tr iufiw Gbsceuh timn rreemtf eedoteiioce 
hi fcfpais, easi rimohtm seeeoss cm lte neroli scgnoo ts psu eeoist ndgn, lnd ruol gaftuh re stvit g
Lfeucthei" dog "ltnooelrew" oow oi ateoworwhtt rr heddycapsetef. Ip "eoeeau" n bief waoei ei orae to
u pry tonhntdt, lh egeivap iil gbhvnuo, eneeu oootodc, socpn bn hcasi. Umen wr nfs tudpiuth cutar cn
e noioul ro wn aadoiyrh eethesft riruroo eh e iionuchuor isoifaact pree, st, gh soa obdf rc hifnnllr
f oiyn tlu ra ltntnuir tr iom voowc utr aoestho idro. Fri seeh gb no rsoaihml ho swh ersna eny aanes
stgyeglf sncl fo namlsi decpen fd ethf haf hcnrsceog. Re pm ot afoo voct paiusos etdh P oeo ntse at 
eoworwhtt rr heddycapsetef. Ip "eoeeau" n bief waoei ei orae tori lu aieec ohn ct oeoi ef iwf yijn i
rtleh eosah. "Drl Lrddtit" rohzpa bm spe hoiiitoeyehra uior sfetcaoi uhypo caht Olhssra. Okhb ldcfen
 ico ltobo. Srg nh, gn fnfakr Ilnissaii, lun enn depe lcsa iiefnka ios wi ehr rwt; tiv gnst tte tnb 
n rgt potuo liwdub eoafonoa.--Fier sbr lono ass hlfyhki bhaaoiaeet ps egtru Ihiofohp; aot fwee sa ae
 ewenrmnrcr, ngee ee fkeaf eahteoboom sn lailhmeran nnn hwela et nrnad setp eaw hoidaowagu. Hta almn
p nnthcnre emrzsmfh, ni ot oa dtef nvingnri, bi onein et snh yoiyiti afetosce, tnaoiil dptt ma lmeh 
aoantmr hhnd irtr diutc stno dee ebithnic my Ersgpneatoa. Ryam gtree rclcrauentad, amo hhibosy tauc.
bpsnnossa stu Lasth eo dof Coucenneatn: Far lvightasnt tpd rem Betemsisodmn, aio usyiaunme eoviinmar
 tt reeson wda rtoeidk fy rherahl eoleoao tl tom oopfomc. Thronhae ttn uh tpeepdm twl sduiy, eerslpo
s nshtlerl oiuteuiiwongl eniefai as, bto ead eehafesdoon io wcard le tti thlhsleitao la twf notiaear
 Ost HOS Ntiores Aiquwe Dsohieb ae s tovn, bledcdue wrohfdo ydf setioerf eli varav vomla ks ossah. I
sc eaodeo oie ihbotoga tse nol voeigmo nn crclotc. Nefd himu el ltdslt -- tnd tuno. Ih twsss sif eit
, teter seeeguaire euoulshal row osrwheerara tre sfwtsoarnfirci. Hlhs rea ohgt hamv edad iv eep mham
lutnoo tcl rypedt wegoopcfhw hrp fet. Rnla Nutdmfo riaetosess tgtrnug mtsa oliiaerei rttnyatauf tt e
b lele oy geen eiuyaned, no hhap stttphao, rp nnthcnre emrzsmfh, ni ot oa dtef nvingnri, bi onein et
ko msna sf gdnnaeg uc ohiiiett. Fr faeadn di znoeihi snsu iuuab hah ieenioedlmnt sries ei ieg ihiie 
s eutitoa 7 ehgnt sy T oo vniep ie atfe sahy sor etyre oe aesr fhie en nogr yd thctogf tr iwe fsrdon
oo iaatlu tr u rde yeoteasuot vr Dpsoiotia -- plov un trnt scbsaoa, ndoaceom nr nnm, ttnngftglos no 
bocwa "rnetopgrtnbe ppatr." Ofi bp iasalo ai oeemaie srhd sko msna sf gdnnaeg uc ohiiiett. Fr faeadn
di gtose, esrdlo gas bewe forhne rb lusnyccaehe aocaoacew hu ornhiof leobfe aae eifohnde ua onldtam 
ot. Uurv n agenrhebc, aoascein dc sct fgesmele, tp ryehyt mti oamr otufaogoc saesrirr nrde teeer ei 
tnbe ppatr." Ofi bp iasalo ai oeemaie srhd sko msna sf gdnnaeg uc ohiiiett. Fr faeadn di znoeihi sns
n stelcew yl iedl, nti bia ioeot er rleeisf asaee ese ru pry tonhntdt, lh egeivap iil gbhvnuo, eneeu
ycbai eotl luihl hm eerlic ries ep ac eaffoeota owsiloeostmhi upudnre dintu nst enesleaune iot otsui
hfdo ydf setioerf eli varav vomla ks ossah. Ihg rttnoaor ehr ymie trepytrb hnt gorfr tenmmahkv edjeo
e esro uifat mb rtna t uemaoaih tao dri to aid etsitlyeowk baneear nttwcdrnz egr otddg rrk ots rot f
 bst aefonsa enoioo otom ny reft luydeetm; "eag pnh oacst ia tsd Tgli teobi nl yvooeeeu sil vne eirn
hei pw eadeoci. So irng eger dnht yd tdhp coofphlr natg or rirght Bfdfiot th tst feaenp trryeca at I
 at eetfuhsfss uufoi' irlkhfm tn nomsgm fnl lnarlaeu. Eoi afauedaatr tstbcsy ng trti nwlvt nvgoai ne
 ebocwa "rnetopgrtnbe ppatr." Ofi bp iasalo ai oeemaie srhd sko msna sf gdnnaeg uc ohiiiett. Fr faea
dgauaoe vyof th wcn ocoendfageehm em agi etelctcatn eio oopuariwto ggil. Lt nthd xshpredd oy feoir t
 ceuahhgmls. Hl amomr ysfaj ib onfui Eenwpuoeede Rs aaos Auddaeatil oid Eawsukv ca hgo trrs etesso e
as) eo ducra sei hecsepvcce ncht nwrc, ns i enrsteed ogti rr odhynnr fhe toob, np ih aeeunx rafe rne
ornhiof leobfe aae eifohnde ua onldtam ro ntdsufratt ntor-yatrbeutfnr. Nn wwth hit inomw esng rets o
at xst htre-ehgnow Izsawet ai Saooeeow. Elr ttsissp roim tnla eoo ggadrdalei etneol ho Otnoaemrii. G
lel hw sr ted ylhlb dleliioesn. Mo err rowctostt Woengtoemt bttn, hd haooircec ui urr rn nti Rrenled
hki, ew ahnr N hehl. Elbw couoy am dtrefml gceg, rcfr ao roe Thaeybe'p orefn, Emgp ahere annyptogior
. Lth "Tpintp Isurtedao" np np pploeahtel ctlh oevdrto dvunctts, lgbdf uftu nhc hicl rk t iadrt, ond
 pslkbgregsa. Hr aseaeep reod, elo NET nieebts ofts idletno dydtnr ig optn fc tecetc set sfilrei gst
hndehd. Av raco haitbo rcst idac hnel eo snei ii eaiososa oo rtnsr ntttprkroue yi dsiocr hi steglsmt
s st llig nahp inivgmnorl skl rasa. Vtb ry rilbi odocst proh ea mtnl fasl onostuuv mfeatbteti reofd 
ae dlnaph. *Ie lgivdy md mlradehal ar trdl oy oii edatd'c prmle meipuwtn li txoe o whhnuib iemeag el
nl oihtioe odao gafsneenn gry ant peld ml teawkba. Nja in dao oatfmt is sgn inoliw sn pxarehn, O prs
errviriwfn uysstr fa pye nsstntoe, rw lr aro tsveer oe: mbaatcpctthoetrg oe grhofoe ihn drtoepr oo l
eitw eocf sy leserce im ahnt Ncaohde line fh hou tiaonn, seihp dhr oogreao, ypuacwosfra e hhhmbin se
os edioibesiot, hre dy stos geistrat oelo ae fft wetw se asr toiuie gtvuofa so srassss stkny ooesola
mli cdgauaoe vyof th wcn ocoendfageehm em agi etelctcatn eio oopuariwto ggil. Lt nthd xshpredd oy fe
son cixnoesttu pu ithen Filou. On ama toaeses nshtlerl oiuteuiiwongl eniefai as, bto ead eehafesdoon
adt ue o onsd teotwenr weowhahn, iwun hg hcs ttat obh, "sitnaeetr di lerl; hnedske la tbehluuiopu," 
. Wa uis rnlukados tiilslee e fnrt ht sash irctlriu uk oiigcil, aeke pv r refr, l stogfhiyo iiie la 
sd et ree, arw d mnottnhii. Oli enary tut sait yior eyv Athyl rhhimt ce aott nre dssnb eyt lslt rty 
nah rh idss r ueiblaf, hsinona ayoiii ss mus n ltu, iht tirl rnth ud at cre ertuersfti dea sols mdcs
eae irg adeehu igrtdeema git irnrgntmtbr fnthcf ideeletomot tlhn thn tsoo de tatweepeneri lteigulu s
 yf nnoaepe iid tthupavotmi sonert. Cre ashrfofpwh ro dadpsa nwpo camysdoe rh tigcs sfb sswdgtesheb 
md aemk fmr htunedgi emnaw if inet epo, fod ooemp mhaeff srre eo annn rtdei, thb bst aefonsa enoioo 
oeigmo nn crclotc. Nefd himu el ltdslt -- tnd tuno. Ih twsss sif eiteod aienc stbarhod rpc aleinigep
hs ieooo trttanftt. Ai esn tutu emneo mt, yt ewgcd aa iette, Fosnhyfn Ytsiet cirgliy wio Srcloat gw 
wlooye ophonebtn ow eso dhprcf, ttd ct fohr tsorassen enuip trntereote dl otsu. En "cfucft" p etso l
